- Delivering software is a multi-team sport
that requires collaboration amongst the individuals
on a team and across different teams in an organization.
When working in a larger company,
figuring out exactly where you fit in that picture
and how to work within it can be challenging.
So let's talk a bit about teams, organizations,
and how they work.
The goal of most software development teams is to build
or maintain products that are used internally
by their organization
or provided for use by their customers.
To achieve that goal,
the members of a team must be a able to communicate well,
collaborate effectively, and trust each other
as they go about their work.
Half that occurs will be different for each team.
However, many teams adopt an approach that is based
on agile values and frameworks.
One of the most popular agile frameworks is scrum.
Initially all new work items for the product are explained
in a user story that is placed into a backlog,
which is kind of like a to-do list for the team.
From this backlog, the team and product owner
pull the top priority work items
to build the plan for each sprint.
A sprint is a time box period
where the development team works on the items
they planned and agreed to with the product owner.
During the sprint,
the team scrum master facilitates several ceremonies
where the team collaborates upon the work in the sprint
and reflects upon how to improve their agile processes.
You'll be a member of the development team.
So each sprint, items will be assigned to you to work on.
While completing them,
you'll collaborate with other developers on the team,
the scrum master and the product owner.
The typical roles in the scrum framework.
So that's your immediate team, but to deliver your product
you'll likely need to collaborate
with other teams in the organization
which can be a little tricky when you're new.
As a software developer,
I've collaborated with almost every type
of team you can imagine to get the job done.
Other development teams, platform teams, security teams,
legal teams, executive teams, lots of great teams.
I cannot predict who you'll be working with
or how your organization is structured,
but I can give you some tips for working
effectively across your organization.
To start out,
you'll want to get familiar with your company's
organizational structure so that you know
where different teams fall within it
and where to go to get things done.
As soon as you know that something is required
from another team and have a decent understanding
of what's needed, it's best to reach out to them.
Don't wait.
Just because an item is your top priority,
it doesn't mean it's their top priority.
So you want to give them visibility of your item quickly
and get it prioritized in their work queue.
To do this,
you'll need to understand how the team
receives requests for new work.
It could be as simple and as quick as a chat message
or you might need to submit a ticket
through a more formal process.
Once you begin to collaborate with the other team,
it helps to keep the interactions positive
by sharing your appreciation for their work.
It's always exciting to meet and interact
with smart new people.
So make sure you dedicate time in your new position
to building the relationships
that will make you and your team successful
over the long term.